-: So in this genus three topology
I'm gonna add a device that will allow me to
capture traffic basically as
if I had a monitoring station in my network.
So let's pretend the Ubuntu PC is a monitoring device.
I'm not actually gonna use that for monitoring.
I'm gonna use genus three to do it directly.
But let's pretend you were running Wire shark
on the Ubuntu PC.
I could as an example
use a Windows PC here rather than a Ubuntu
but I'm going to simply capture the traffic this way.
So again, if I start capturing on this link
will I see the HGDP traffic from the PC to the server?
I'll filter for HGDP here
nothing at the moment, on the client.
I'll refresh this page.
Don't see anything, manually type it in, don't see anything.
Shut that down, open it up again.
Try and connect to the server.
We don't see any HGDP traffic on this link
but what I'm gonna do now is SPAN
or mirror the port on the switch.
So on switch one
I'm gonna go into global configuration mode.
I'm gonna type monitor.
This goes by different terms.
It's known as SPAN or monitor or mirroring.
SPAN is known as switched port analyzer.
We're gonna use the term monitor here.
So I'm gonna monitor a session.
I'm gonna give it a number one.
I'm gonna specify the source interface
as gigabit 0/0.
So this interface is gonna be the source.
And then I'm gonna say monitor session one
destination interface, gigabit 0/3
So source interface, destination interface.
The switch is gonna copy all traffic
from this interface to this interface.
So let's prove that, this is the Wireshark capture
from gigabit 0/3 to the Ubuntu host.
In other words, over here, on the client, refresh the page.
Notice I suddenly see HGDP traffic.
Refresh the page again.
I see more HGDP traffic.
So because I'm spanning the port
I can see the HGDP traffic.
So if I had a monitoring station here
so I was running a Windows computer or some other computer
with Y shock directly on it, I would need to SPAN the port
like I've done here to be able to see the traffic.
Again, network vendors use different terms
mirroring, monitoring, SPAN, but notice show monitor session
and let's say session one
you can see that we are capturing traffic
in both directions on this port.
And the destination port is gigabit 0/3.
Capsulation is native.
We're not adding any additional frames to the captures.
So you'll actually see the original frames here.
Notice source MAC address,
PC going to the server, source IP address of PC
to the server.
So frame, packet, segment, random port number
going to port 80.
And you can see the actual request made there.
So if we look at the server response
we can see, for instance, the PNG file.
Notice nothing was modified.
So with a browser, it often caches the data locally.
So it doesn't re-request all the data to save on bandwidth.
But if I shut that browser down
open it up again and go to the server
and I'll go right down again, we see not modified.
So let's actually do this.
I'm gonna open up a private window and go
to the server that way to force it to do everything again.
So here we go, client request.
Here's the reply from the server.
And notice you can see all the data from the server.
So you can see title of the webpage
you can see the actual text in the webpage.
So in summary, be careful of where you capture traffic.
In this example, we wouldn't see the traffic
on this link or on this link
unless we enabled port monitoring or SPAN the port.
In other words, you need to get the switch to copy frames
from this interface out of this interface.
It wouldn't normally do that
if traffic was going from the client to the server.
You have to enable the mirroring
of traffic to be able to see it on a switch.
With a hub, you wouldn't have to do that.
A hub floods traffic out of all ports, but a switch doesn't.
So once again, don't forget
you need to be careful where you're monitoring traffic.
If you want to see what's going on, as an example
if you wanna see what's going on
on this side of the network
you want to put a probe or some device on that part
of the network so that you can see what's going on.
You could implement remote SPAN where you copy traffic
through a tunnel from one side of the network to another.
But you need to be careful with that
because of overhead and because of the amount
of traffic that you're gonna be receiving.
So it would be better to capture traffic locally if you can.